# Default mode settings for Bahamut
# beI,k,jl,cimMnOprRst

identity.name = Bahamut mode aliases
identity.ircd = bahamut

server.modej = Join throttling

server.moder = Channel has been registered

server.modeL = Appear in /list

server.umodea = Services admin
server.umodeA = Server admin
server.umodeb = View oper chatops
server.umodec = Show client connections
server.umoded = Show debug messages
server.umodee = Show blocked DCC sends
server.umodef = Show flood alerts
server.umodeF = Bypass throttling
server.umodeg = View oper globops
server.umodeh = Helpful mode
server.umodeI = Hide server info
server.umodej = Show drone messages
server.umodek = Show kill messages
server.umodem = Report spambots
server.umoden = Show routing messages
server.umoder = Registered
server.umodex = Squelsh
server.umodeX = Silent squelsh
server.umodey = Spy mode